We're now able to sign into our apt to create users and we're now able to also track if we're signed
in or not as a next step.
I want to add a functionality which allows me to save a shopping list so that if I have to moët items
on this list that I can actually save this to a server and fetch it later if I log into this app again
because it's not stored on some device storage as a side note we will dive into storing something on
the local device in the next app.
So how shall we start.
What would be nice if we had some dropdown menu here which allows us to choose between saving and loading
the data.
And ironic too has a nice component which helps us with that in the ionic to component documentation.
You can have a look at the pop over.
This is the element we're going to use you pop over just this nice pop over well that's where the name
comes from.
You saw in the app demo at the beginning of the section it's pretty simple to implement and it has some
similarity to modal.
So let's have a look at how it works in order to implement a pop over.
We first need a page which will serve estus pop over.
This again is the similarity to the mode I was referring to it as the model has a full page behind the
scenes or loads a full page as a pop over to the current page.
Now I would create this page in a subfolder to the shopping list folder.
I'll name it s l options shopping list options.
This will be the name of this page so I'll create a new file here s l options dot TS and you could use
the sealife words but you can't create pages in a subfolder with the Seelye which.
Which is why I'll do it manually.
So you're all export does class s SL options is the name of these options page though is the name of
this component and of course it is a type compound word it is a angular component I should say.
So let's add two component decorator to this class here to make it a component.
I'll add a selector here which is page s.l options and more importantly I'll add a template and I'll
use tactics because I want to create the inline template.
Now here the template I'll set up the page I want to display as a pop over fruit as pop over feature.
We're going to implement in a second.
Now here you can basically create a normal page make it look however you want though important you don't
add Ironhead are in and I'm content just add and you want to have inside of your pop over because it
will only be icons and there will be no header and footer.
It's kind of a limited page.
You were at in here.
This is important to keep in mind for a pop over only create the page content here.
What you would normally place between I-and content and here I would simply use the ion grid queues
You could also structure this as a list whatever you like in this thread.
I'm going to the text center direct because I want to center everything I'll have I in row of course
and in I in row I'll add mine Culham where I will have age free element let's say where I say store
and load and you could style is different to use a different element of course or add another row below
this I-and row.
And in this row I want to have my first button this button will then hold my Or you will present me
with the store option or with the load option let's say.
So add a button with I and button placed on it.
I want to have the outline look to have no background but just border and you can change this of course
and I'll add a click listener Raul say on action load because here this will trigger do you load action
let's say and I of course have to implement this method thereafter.
So here I will give it a caption of load list and then I'll add another row below that row here with
an average column where either you guessed it will also add another button of course again with iron
button out line at a click Lisner way.
Fire on action this time with the store argument.
And you could also pass S.R.O and one year it's arguments whatever you prefer.
So save the last days ISDE caption and with that I got my basic template set up four days Essel options
page.
Now of course I also need to add the on load Meffert which you will know on action of last year on the
action method which will be responsible for executing the correct action.
And what I want to do here is I want to dismiss the pop over so I will inject the view controller remembered
the modal lecture.
This is how you do dismiss the modal and this works the same for a pop over which like a modal simply
is an overlay to the currently loaded page.
So here I can then use the View Controller to dismiss this page and that is where I actually want to
pass my action.
So your D action is a string load or store.
And I will simply pass on this action and I won't pass it like this and said Astorino Chavez could object.
We're all set action to action so stored in a property named action.
And this allows me to then handle this action on the shopping list page instead of this pop over.
You don't have to use this pattern but I like to have all my shopping related code in the shopping list
page itself.
So with this we're almost there but we can see this pop over right now in order to see it all go to
the shopping list HDMI file.
And here I need to add it to the nav bar.
I want to have a button which opens to pop over.
Now I will add a new and buttons block here because I don't want to place it at the start.
Instead I want to place it at the end.
And this new button here will of course received the iron button styling it will only hold and I can
add up and click.
I want to trigger on show options which will trigger this pop over.
And then the button I simply place the eye and I can already found a fitting one with the name more
which will just be free dots which kind of indicates you compress on me to get more options.
Again Giusti I can you prefer Well with that your shopping list typescript file.
I'll add this new method on show options and here I want to present this pop over.
We created a page we will use as a template.
But right now we're not using this.
We will use it for a special control of though and you probably guessed the name of this control or
I'm storing it in a property name pop over controller does name is up to you of course but then it is
of type pop over controller which needs to be imported from ionic angular like this here.
So if this I'm injecting the pop over controller storing it in this property we're now in on show options.
I can treat a new pop over like this.
Pop over controller create.
And now here we're not passing a Chavez trip object as we do for alert controller and so on.
But like for the mobile controller here we simply passed the page we want to load.
So the s l option page and of course we also need to add this page to our declarations aere in our app
module.
So let's quickly do this and also add the import in this file and also added two entry components because
we're still not loading those fluids selector or frood England to router Now if this in place we're
creating this pop over.
Now what I can do is I can simply presented and will implement the rest of the logic later.
For now let's stick with that and let's see if this actually works.
If we are able to see a pop over so we see the three dots if I click on it we see store and load.
It doesn't look like a pop although it's simply a dialogue in the middle of the screen.
So something is not working as expected.
The reason it's not working as expected is that the pop over has no chance of knowing where this button
sits which triggered the event.
Well theoretically you could argue it would have a chance but it's not inferring this automatically.
Instead in the template off the shopping list page we have to pass the event object cutis on show options
method where we create this model where we are not mold what we create as pop or where it is.
And then on the pre-sent method I actually have to pass some arguments and here there is a research
property name Eevee for event.
So here we received this event we're passing on with a dollar sign event here.
Since it's a click listener We know that this will be of type mouse event.
But this doesn't really matter does type assignment here.
What matters though is that we assign this event object we're getting here as an argument to this property
in this object we're passing to the present method.
And this will allow the pop over to extract where to render itself because the mouse event will store
the coordinates of this event and therefore it's able to determine where we actually trigger event where
in place if we now go back and click on it.
Now you see it actually loads at the top and points to where we trigger event.
Now this is working correctly.
With that we got our pop over.
We can now continue working on making those buttons work.
So we actually are able to load and save our data.